# Second-level-Digital-Divide-in-Internet-Searches-in-Brazil
Evidence of a Second-level Digital Divide in Internet Searches in Brazil The Internet can now be accessed from a suite of devices such as laptops, tablets, and smartphones, which are increasingly marketed to children as social necessities. Consequently, the Internet now has become ubiquitous in students’ lives both in their homes and in schools. While Brazilian governmental initiatives focused on home broadband Internet access, availability of computers for students in schools has been drastically reduced since 2010. Furthermore, the migration of students’ Internet access to smartphones did not occur within schools, where its use is prohibited. The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of the increasing home and mobile Internet access on the reproduction or closing of existing educational inequalities. Unlike previous studies, this research used choropleth maps to perform geospatial analysis of actual users’ interests, as suggested by their Internet searches in Brazil in the period 2005–2015 by region. Our results provide evidence of a geographical second-level digital divide between two regions: south and south-eastern states, which acquired access to the Internet earlier, and northern, north-eastern, and mid-western states. Furthermore, results also suggest that, by removing the institutional access to the Internet and the much-needed social support and reinforcement to their students from 2011 on, the Brazilian school system is failing to play its crucial role in cultivating in their students the more productive use of Internet access that could help them to achieve life goals and bring about life changes. Due to this failure by schools, those costly governmental initiatives of merely increasing home and mobile broadband Internet access, and indirectly its use for entertainment, ended up contributing to the widening of the second-level digital divide, rather than closing it. Brazilian policymakers should concentrate efforts and resources in understanding and addressing the large-scale second-level digital divide in Internet use found in this study. One possible solution would be equipping educators with the knowledge, skills towards the educational use of mobile devices, especially smartphones, and taking into account UNESCO recommendations for updating policies related to allowing and improving connectivity options for mobile Internet access in school premises while teaching their students the digital skills that promote the productive and responsible use of the Internet.
